# Openshift Workshop: S2I

<small>tran@puzzle.ch</small>

<!-- .slide: class="master01" -->

---

## Source-to-Image (S2I) Framework

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/creating_images/s2i.html

Creating S2I images out of scope in this workshop.

---

## S2I workflow

S2I images are used in Openshift for **Builds** with *--strategy=source.*

The goal is to produce an **image** that runs the application.

S2I Builder Image + User supplied source => Image

---

## Remember the exercise?

`oc new-build --binary registry.access.redhat.com/rhscl/httpd-24-rhel7 --name=static-site`

results in a S2I build.

`oc start-build static-site --from-dir=.`

uploads directory `.` as S2I context.

---

## What happened (very simplified!)

* registry.access.redhat.com/rhscl/httpd-24-rhel7 is a S2I ready image. https://github.com/sclorg/httpd-container

* We defined a openshift new-build that uses this S2I image. The S2I Image has already all the scripts baked in.

* During the build (S2I assemble script), the user supplied source (`--from-dir=.`) is copied to `/opt/app-root/src`

----

* The Apache configuration is (`/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf`) is modified (mainly DocumentRoot is set to `/opt/app-root/src`)

* The finished image is pushed into the internal Openshift registry **/NAMESPACE/static-site:latest**

* (Deployments will be triggered, if they were pointing to the image)

* (During deployment, the **S2I run script** will be run)

---

## RedHat provided S2I images

https://access.redhat.com/containers/?count=10#/category/Builder%20Image

---

## JBoss EAP for Openshift

[General documentation: JBoss Enterprise Application Platform for OpenShift](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform/7.1/html/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform_for_openshift/)


[S2I Chapter: JBoss Enterprise Application Platform for OpenShift](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform/7.1/html/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform_for_openshift/reference_information#reference_s2i)

----

## Customize your EAP

* Configuration: `configuration/standalone-openshift.xml`
* Modules: `modules/...`
* Artifacts: `deployments/*.war|ear|jar` (copied to $JBOSS_HOME/deployments/)
